#labels Featured,Phase-Design
# Release notes for WAFO version 2.5 beta

= Introduction =

This release includes many new functions and refactorings of old functions. The details are given below:


= Details =
== New directories added ==
  * GRAPHUTIL : many useful plot functions
  * NUMDIFFTOOLS : tools for automatic numerical differentiation of functions
  * POLYUTIL : tools for evaluating polynomials.

==New functions:==
  
Spectrum estimation:
All translated from Octave (GPL).
   * welch_psd
   * welch_psd2
   * welch_cpsd

Distribution functions:
  * poisson, 
  * cauchy, 
  * hypergeometric, 

Profile log likelihood functions:
  * lnkexp       - Link for x,F and parameters of Exponential distribution
  * lnkgenpar    - Link for x,F and parameters of Generalized Pareto distribution
  * lnkgev       - Link for x,F and parameters of Generalized Extreme value distribution
  * lnkgumb      - Link for x,F and parameters of Gumbel distribution
  * lnkgumbtrnc  - Link for x,F and parameters of truncated Gumbel distribution
  * lnkray       - Link for x,F and parameters of Rayleigh distribution
  * lnkweib      - Link for x,F and parameters of the Weibull distribution
  * logps        - Moran's negative log Product Spacings statistic
  * ciproflog    - Confidence Interval using Profile Log- likelihood or Product Spacing- function.
  * proflog           - Profile Log- likelihood or Product Spacing-function.
  * FINDCIPROFLOG     - Find Confidence Interval from proflog function

Statistics functions:
   * decluster         - Decluster peaks over threshold values
   * extremalidx       - Extremal Index measuring the dependence of data
   * findpot           - Find indices to Peaks over threshold values
   * prb2retper        - Return period from Probability of exceedance. 
   * retper2prb        - Probability of exceedance from return period.

   * fitgenparrange    - Parameter estimates for GPD model vs thresholds
   * disprsnidx        - Dispersion Index vs threshold
   * reslife           - Mean Residual Life, i.e., mean excesses vs thresholds
   * plotdisprsnidx    - Plot Dispersion Index vs thresholds
   * plotreslife       - Plot Mean Residual Life (mean excess vs thresholds)
  
   * logit             - Logit function.
   * logitinv          - Inverse logit function.
   * regglm            - Generalized Linear Model regression
   * reglm             - Fit multiple Linear Regression Model.
   * reglogit          - Fit ordinal logistic regression model.
   * regnonlm          - Non-Linear Model Regression  
   * regsteplm         - Stepwise predictor subset selection for Linear Model regression

   * princomp          -  Compute principal components of X

   * ranktrf           - Rank transformation of data material.
   * spearman          - Spearman's rank correlation coefficient.
   * var2corr          - Variance matrix to correlation matrix conversion.
   * lmoment           - L-moment based on order statistics.
   * pdfdiscrete       - Discrete PDF
   * pdfempirical      - Empirical pdf
   * cdfdiscrete       - Discrete cdf
   * cdfempirical      - Empirical cdf
   * invdiscrete       - Disrete quantile
   * invempirical      - Empirical quantile. 

   * plotbox           - Plot box-and-whisker diagram
   * plotdensity       - Plot density.
   * plotfitsumry      - Plot diagnostic of fit to data

   * anovan            - multi-way analysis of variance (ANOVA)
   * testgumb          - Tests if shape parameter in a GEV is equal to zero
   * testmean1boot     - Bootstrap t-test for the mean equal to 0.
   * testmean1n        - Test for mean equals 0 using one-sample T-test
   * testmean2n        - Two-sample t-test for mean(x) equals mean(y)
   * testmean1r        - Wilcoxon signed rank test for H0: mean(x) equals 0.
   * testmean2r        - Wilcoxon rank-sum test for H0: mean(x) equals mean(y).

 Confidence interval estimation
   * ciboot            - Bootstrap confidence interval.
   * ciquant           - Nonparametric confidence interval for quantile
   * momci1b           - Moment confidence intervals using Bootstrap

 Bootstrap & jacknife estimates
   * covboot           - Bootstrap estimate of the variance of a parameter estimate.
   * covjack           - Jackknife estimate of the variance of a parameter estimate.
   * stdboot           - Bootstrap estimate of the parameter standard deviation.
   * stdjack           - Jackknife estimate of the standard deviation of a parameter 
  
  
  

 == Other changes ==
 XXXpdf, XXXcdf, XXXrnd, XXXinv, XXXfit, XXXplot renamed to pdfXXX, cdfXXX, rndXXX,
  invXXX fitXXX, plotXXX, respectively.
  XXXstat renamed to momXXX
  fitXXX now returns a structure instead of a vector.
  All pdfXXX, cdfXXX, invXXX, momXXX now accepts a structure as returned
  from fitXXX functions.
 All momXXX functions return mean, std, skewness and kurtosis.
  iqr      renamed to iqrange
  identify renamed to clickslct
  whisto   renamed to histgrm
  mle      renamed to mlest
  empdistr renamed to plotedf
  cempdistr renamed to plotedfcnd
  wskewness renamed to skew 
  wkurtosis renamed to kurt 
  wquantile renamed to percentile