#summary Release notes for WAFO version 2.5
#labels Featured,Phase-Design

= Introduction =

The WAFO version 2.5 release includes many new functions and refactorings of old functions. Many functions are now distributed under the
GNU LESSER GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE.

The details are given below:


= Details =
== Refactorings ==

 * XXXpdf, XXXcdf, XXXrnd, XXXinv, XXXfit, XXXplot renamed to pdfXXX, cdfXXX, rndXXX, invXXX fitXXX, plotXXX, respectively.
 * XXXstat renamed to momXXX
 * fitXXX now returns a structure instead of a vector.
 * All pdfXXX, cdfXXX, invXXX, momXXX now accepts a structure as returned from fitXXX functions.
 * All momXXX functions return mean, std, skewness and kurtosis.
 * iqr      renamed to iqrange
 * identify renamed to clickslct
 * whisto   renamed to histgrm
 * mle      renamed to mlest
 * empdistr renamed to plotedf
 * cempdistr renamed to plotedfcnd
 * wskewness renamed to skew 
 * wkurtosis renamed to kurt 
 * wquantile renamed to percentile

== New directories added ==
  * GRAPHUTIL : many useful plot functions
  * NUMDIFFTOOLS : tools for automatic numerical differentiation of functions
  * POLYUTIL : tools for evaluating polynomials.

==New functions:==
  
Spectrum estimation:
All translated from Octave (GPL).
   * welch_psd
   * welch_psd2
   * welch_cpsd

Distribution functions:
  * poisson, 
  * cauchy, 
  * hypergeometric, 

Profile log likelihood functions:
  * lnkexp       - Link for x,F and parameters of Exponential distribution
  * lnkgenpar    - Link for x,F and parameters of Generalized Pareto distribution
  * lnkgev       - Link for x,F and parameters of Generalized Extreme value distribution
  * lnkgumb      - Link for x,F and parameters of Gumbel distribution
  * lnkgumbtrnc  - Link for x,F and parameters of truncated Gumbel distribution
  * lnkray       - Link for x,F and parameters of Rayleigh distribution
  * lnkweib      - Link for x,F and parameters of the Weibull distribution
  * logps        - Moran's negative log Product Spacings statistic
  * ciproflog    - Confidence Interval using Profile Log- likelihood or Product Spacing- function.
  * proflog           - Profile Log- likelihood or Product Spacing-function.
  * FINDCIPROFLOG     - Find Confidence Interval from proflog function

Statistics functions:
   * decluster         - Decluster peaks over threshold values
   * extremalidx       - Extremal Index measuring the dependence of data
   * findpot           - Find indices to Peaks over threshold values
   * prb2retper        - Return period from Probability of exceedance. 
   * retper2prb        - Probability of exceedance from return period.

   * fitgenparrange    - Parameter estimates for GPD model vs thresholds
   * disprsnidx        - Dispersion Index vs threshold
   * reslife           - Mean Residual Life, i.e., mean excesses vs thresholds
   * plotdisprsnidx    - Plot Dispersion Index vs thresholds
   * plotreslife       - Plot Mean Residual Life (mean excess vs thresholds)
  
   * logit             - Logit function.
   * logitinv          - Inverse logit function.
   * regglm            - Generalized Linear Model regression
   * reglm             - Fit multiple Linear Regression Model.
   * reglogit          - Fit ordinal logistic regression model.
   * regnonlm          - Non-Linear Model Regression  
   * regsteplm         - Stepwise predictor subset selection for Linear Model regression

   * princomp          -  Compute principal components of X

   * ranktrf           - Rank transformation of data material.
   * spearman          - Spearman's rank correlation coefficient.
   * var2corr          - Variance matrix to correlation matrix conversion.
   * lmoment           - L-moment based on order statistics.
   * pdfdiscrete       - Discrete PDF
   * pdfempirical      - Empirical pdf
   * cdfdiscrete       - Discrete cdf
   * cdfempirical      - Empirical cdf
   * invdiscrete       - Disrete quantile
   * invempirical      - Empirical quantile. 

   * plotbox           - Plot box-and-whisker diagram
   * plotdensity       - Plot density.
   * plotfitsumry      - Plot diagnostic of fit to data

   * anovan            - multi-way analysis of variance (ANOVA)
   * testgumb          - Tests if shape parameter in a GEV is equal to zero
   * testmean1boot     - Bootstrap t-test for the mean equal to 0.
   * testmean1n        - Test for mean equals 0 using one-sample T-test
   * testmean2n        - Two-sample t-test for mean(x) equals mean(y)
   * testmean1r        - Wilcoxon signed rank test for H0: mean(x) equals 0.
   * testmean2r        - Wilcoxon rank-sum test for H0: mean(x) equals mean(y).

 Confidence interval estimation
   * ciboot            - Bootstrap confidence interval.
   * ciquant           - Nonparametric confidence interval for quantile
   * momci1b           - Moment confidence intervals using Bootstrap

 Bootstrap & jacknife estimates
   * covboot           - Bootstrap estimate of the variance of a parameter estimate.
   * covjack           - Jackknife estimate of the variance of a parameter estimate.
   * stdboot           - Bootstrap estimate of the parameter standard deviation.
   * stdjack           - Jackknife estimate of the standard deviation of a parameter 
  
== Files distributed under LGPL ==
The following files of WAFO are distributed under the
GNU LESSER GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE; either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

===Graphutil===

black
clevels
cltext
epcolor
fcolorbar
figXXXX.m
plotfill
tallibing
tallibing3
vtkwrite
wafostamp
mayaplot

===Kdetools===
bincount
chi2gof
chi2gof2
deriv
deriv2
evalpdf
fftce
gridcount
hXXX.m
kde.m
kde1dgui.m
kde2dgui.m
kdebin
kdedemo1
kdedemo2
kdefun
kdeoptset
kernelstats
mkernel
mkernel2
mkernelrnd
pdfstat
qlevels
qlevels2
sample
ssample
vsph



===Misc===

betaloge
binom.m
ccquad
comnsize
findpeaks.m
genchol
geth1line
getshipchar.m
gravity.m
hypgf.m
iscomnsize
ismatlab
isoctave
levels
loaddata
mkcontents.m
parent.m
parseoptions.m
simpson.m
sinc.m
smooth.m
wafoversion.m
wdensity.m
where


===Multidim===
dat2dspec.m
dspec2spreading.m
sensortypeid.m
sensortype.m
specoptset.m
testmeasurements

bfsspec.m
getcrosspectra.m
hwestimate.m
imlm.m
memfun.m
mlm.m 
normspfn.m

===Numdifftols===
derivest.m
directionaldiff.m
gradest
hessdiag
hessian
jacobianest

===Onedim===
bartlett
covplot.m
dat2cor
dat2cov
dat2crossind
dat2crossind.m
dat2lc.m
dat2spec
dat2spec2
dat2steep.m
dat2tc.m
dat2tp.m
dat2wa.m
detrendma.m
ecross.m
findcross.m
findextrema.m
findoutliers
findrfc.m
hanning
hs2sign.m
lcplot.m
mm2lc.m
parzen
plotlc
reconstruct.m
spwaveplot.m
waveplot.m
vc2sign.m

===Polyutil===
poly2hstr
poly2str
polyadd
polydiv
polyint
polyishft
polymul
polynder
polynint
polypow
polyreloc
polyrescl
polyshft
polysub
polytrim


===Simtools===
cov2csdat.m
cov2sdat.m
disufq.m
disufq.c
duffsim.m
lc2sdat.m
seamovie.m
seasim.m
spec2linspec.m
spec2nlsdat.m
spec2sdat.m

===Spec===
bretschneider.m
cov2spec.m
covinterp
createcov
createspec
demospec
dspec2char
getjonswappeakedness.m
getjonswapseastate.m
jonswap.m
k2w
lagtype
mccormick.m
mkbretschneider.m
mkdspec
mkjonswap.m
mkochihubble.m
mkspreading.m
mktmaspec.m
mktorsethaugen.m
normpsec
ochihubble.m
ohspec.m
ohspec3.m
oscspec.m
phi1.m
plotspec
pmspec.m
rotspec
scalespec
spec2bw
spec2char
spec2cov
spec2cov2
spec2dt
spec2mom
spec2spec
specinterp
specnorm
specplot
specscale
spreading
tmaspec.m
torsethaugen.m
ttspec
w2k.m
wallop.m

===Statistics===
alias
cdfbeta
cdff
cdft
ciproflog
comnsize
edf
edfcnd
fitbeta
invnorm
invbeta
invf
invgam
invgengam
invgengammod
invinvnorm
invt
histgrm
loglike
logps
mombeta
pdfbeta
pdff
pdft
percentile
plotedf
plotedfcnd
proflog
rndf
rndgam
rndgengam


===Wavemodels===
b04jpdf.m
b04jpdf2.m
b04pdf.m
b04pdf2.m
bmr00pdf.m
bmr00pdf2.m
braylpdf.m
cav76pdf.m
jhspdf.m
jhspdf2.m
jhsnlpdf.m
jhsnlpdf2.m
jhvnlpdf.m
jhvnlpdf2.m
jhvpdf.m
jhvpdf2.m
lh83pdf.m
ltwcpdf.m
mk87pdf.m
mk87pdf2.m
ochi98pdf.m
ohhpdf.m
ohhspdf.m
ohhspdf2.m
ohhsspdf.m
ohhsspdf2.m
ohhvpdf.m
tay81pdf.m
tay90pdf.m
thpdf.m
thsnlpdf2.m
thsnlpdf.m
thspdf.m
thspdf2.m
thsspdf.m
thsspdf2.m
thvpdf.m
thvpdf2.m
trraylpdf.m


b04cdf.m
b04jcdf.m
bmr00cdf.m
braylcdf.m
jhscdf.m
jhsnlcdf.m
jhvcdf.m
jhvnlcdf.m
mk87cdf.m
ochi98cdf.m 
ohhcdf.m
ohhscdf.m
ohhsscdf.m
tay81cdf.m
tay90cdf.m
thcdf.m
thscdf.m
thsnlcdf.m
thsscdf.m
thvcdf.m

mk87rnd.m
braylfit.m
ochi98fit.m
 
jhwparfun.m
jhnlwparfun.m
ohhgparfun.m
tay81fun.m
tay90fun.m
thgparfun.m
thwparfun.m